#summary Graph Editor ECMAScript API.
#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =

Visual Graph Editor 2 has support for scripting with QtScript (Based on the ECMAScript), to make your graph analyzing tasks a bit easier. With help of scripts you can:
  * Dynamically modify graph with scripts and see result immediately;
  * Try to make some tasks from graph theory for easier getting the point of complex algorithms that are connected with graph theory.

= Details =

Scripts are currently stored in the "_scripts_" directory within program directory and have _.js_ extension. To make an extension to the editor, you can add new script simply by creating new file to the "_scripts_" directory. All scripts are initialized at program start-up.

Each script must have at least those 3 special functions:
  * `onMenuClicked()` - activated when script item is clicked in Graph menu;

  * `getDescription()` - returns string to represent menu name for script;

  * `getTypeOfScript()` - returns integer value to decide when menu is available:
    * `0` - at any time;
    * `1` - when only one vertex is selected;
    * `2` - when only two vertices are selected.

= Graph Editor ECMAScript API =
ECMAScript API has an additional objects to easier manipulation of the graph:
  * `GraphVertex`;
  * `GraphNode`.

The attributes of the `GraphVertex` object are following:
  * `x` - _x_ position of vertex in the 3D space;
  * `y` - _y_ position of vertex in the 3D space;
  * `z` - _z_ position of vertex in the 3D space.

The attributes of the `GraphNode` object are following:
  * `from` - index of vertex where the edge starts;
  * `to` - index of vertex where the edge ends.

To work with graph that is stored in the editor you can use following methods from the special static `GraphEditorApi` object:
  * `clearGraph()` - delete all vertices and edges from the graph;

  * `addVertices(vertices)` - add vertices to the graph:
    * `vertices` - array of `GraphVertex` objects from the API that should be added to the graph;

  * `addEdges(edges)` - add edges to the graph:
    * `edges` - array of `GraphEdge` objects from the API that should be added to the graph;

  * `getGraph(vertices, edges)` - get entire graph from editor:
    * `vertices` - array that will be used as storage for `GraphVertex` objects from graph;
    * `edges` - array that will be used as storage for `GraphEdge` objects from graph;

  * `setGraph(vertices, edges)` - replace the current graph in editor:
    * `vertices` - array of `GraphVertex` objects that should be added to the graph;
    * `edges` - array of `GraphEdge` objects that should be added to the graph;
 
  * `getEdgesOfVertex(vertexIndex, connectionWay, edges)` - get all edges of vertex with selected index:
    * `vertexIndex` - index of vertex in the graph to get edges of;
    * `connectionWay` - type of edges to look-up:
      * `CONNECTION_BOTH` - bidirectional edges connected with the vertex;
      * `CONNECTION_FROM` - directional edges that connected from the vertex;
      * `CONNECTION_TO` - directional edges that connected to the vertex;
    * `edges` - array that will be used as storage for `GraphEdge` objects from graph;

  * `deleteVertex(vertexIndex)` - delete vertex with selected index:
    * `vertexIndex` - index of vertex in the graph to delete;

  * `removeEdge(edge)` - delete edge with selected attributes:
    * `edge` - `GraphEdge` object to be deleted;

  * `getSelectedIndexes(indexes)` - get array of indexes of the selected vertices:
    * `indexes` - array of indexes of the selected vertices, where first element is the index of first selected vertex, and second is the index of second selected vertex. If vertex/vertices is/are not selected, then value of index/indexes will be equal to `-1`;

  * `getVertexByIndex(vertexIndex)` - get `GraphVertex` object of index:
    * `vertexIndex` - index of vertex in the graph to get object of;

  * `markGraphsPart(vertices, edges)` - mark the sub-graph in editor:
    * `vertices` - array of `GraphVertex` objects that should be marked in the graph;
    * `edges` - array of `GraphEdge` objects that should be marked in the graph.

= Examples =
The following examples could be found in the source code:
  * Finding child sub-graph - [https://code.google.com/p/vge2/source/browse/trunk/src/scripts/subGraphChild.js]
  * Finding parent sub-graph - [https://code.google.com/p/vge2/source/browse/trunk/src/scripts/subGraphParent.js]
  * Floyd-Warshall algorithm - [https://code.google.com/p/vge2/source/browse/trunk/src/scripts/pathfindFloyd.js]